Let's come up with a system that predicts whether a person survives the sink, as would be the case if there was a maritime disaster, several of the variables have to be taken into consideration. Ranging from the ones which you mentioned to the other factors affecting the chances of survival, the following will be considered:

Step 1: Identify the Key Variables
Socio-Economic Status: In past incidents, such as that of the Titanic, this may affect the chances of survival because of cabin location or the availability of lifeboats.
Age: Perhaps rescues emphasize the need to save younger victims, especially children, although this factor does relate somewhat to physical strength, and therefore, ultimately, survival.
Sex: Traditionally, women and children have been favored in rescue.
Physical Health/Fitness: Generally speaking, the better the physical health, the higher the survival rates.
Swimming Ability: Swimmers would have an advantage over non-swimmers.
Location on Vessel: Individuals who happen to be closest to a life-saving appliance or an exit are most likely to survive.
Time of Day: Those cases where the accident took place at night are most likely to have a poor survival rate due to visibility issues.
Environmental Conditions: These can also include weather condition, water temperature, and distance from the shore, all determining the likelihood of survival.
Step 2: Machine Learning Model
Based on the above features, it's possible to predict a person's fate using a classification model. These are the steps involved in developing such a model:

Data Collection: Datasets are prepared on the records of various maritime disasters of the past. Examples include survival records with variable features such as age, gender, class, and location on the vessel, among other environmental considerations. Feature Engineering: Prepare the categorical variables, that is, gender and socio-economic status, into numerical representations that the model can use. Model Selection: A classification algorithm-say, logistic regression, random forest, or neural network-will be used to predict the probability of survival.
Model Training: The model should be trained on a train set and tested for its validity on a test set in order to gauge the accuracy of the model.
Step 3: Inferring Factors of Influence
The developed model can be used to identify which factors have the most influence on the probability of survival. For instance:

Socio-Economic Status: SES would be a strong predictor if there existed a large class disparity in access to resources such as lifeboats.
Age and Gender: In case rescue protocols promote the rule of "women and children first," these also would be important considerations.
Environmental Conditions: The model may indicate that the survival rates nosedive when the temperature gets extremely cold or during stormy seas.
Step 4: Deployment
This system can be deployed as either an application or API, taking in individual data as an input and returning a score representing the likelihood of survival. It can also be enhanced to customize training simulations of rescue teams to understand key survival factors in maritime rescue situations.
